Test 0026 review (#12)
ScreaMy7/owasp-mastg: demos/android/MASVS-CODE/MASTG-DEMO-XXXC/MASTG-DEMO-XXXC.md

---
platform: android
title: Dynamic Detection of Arbitrary Code Execution Using Implicit Intent Hijacking
id: MASTG-DEMO-XXXC
code: [kotlin]
test: MASTG-TEST-XXXC
profiles: [L1, L2]
---

## Sample

The demo consists of a vulnerable application that relies on an implicit intent (`android.intent.action.GET_CONTENT`) to process content from a returned URI, and a second application that hijacks this intent to enable arbitrary code execution using a malicious native library served through a `ContentProvider`.

## Vulnerable App

The vulnerable app uses `startActivityForResult` with an implicit intent to request a file. When the result is returned, the app copies the content referenced by the URI into its internal library directory and loads it. This allows an attacker-controlled `ContentProvider` to supply a malicious shared library.

{{ MastgTest.kt }}

The `LibraryLoaderActivity` handles the returned URI by copying the content to the app's native library directory and loading it via `System.load()`. Since the URI is not validated, an attacker can substitute a malicious `.so` file.

> {{ LibraryLoaderActivity.kt # AndroidManifest.xml }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ LibraryLoaderActivity.kt }}
```

---
platform: android
title: Dynamic Detection of Arbitrary Code Execution Using Implicit Intent Hijacking
id: MASTG-DEMO-XXXC
code: [kotlin]
test: MASTG-TEST-XXXC

> profiles: [L1, L2]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

## Sample

> This demo consists of two applications. A vulnerable app that uses an implicit intent with `android.intent.action.GET_CONTENT` and loads content from the returned URI, and an attacker app that hijacks this intent to achieve arbitrary code execution by supplying a malicious native library via a `ContentProvider`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The demo consists of a vulnerable application that relies on an implicit intent (`android.intent.action.GET_CONTENT`) to process content from a returned URI, and a second application that hijacks this intent to enable arbitrary code execution using a malicious native library served through a `ContentProvider`,
```

{{ MastgTest.kt }}

The `LibraryLoaderActivity` handles the returned URI by copying the content to the app's native library directory and loading it via `System.load()`. Since the URI is not validated, an attacker can substitute a malicious `.so` file.

{{ LibraryLoaderActivity.kt # AndroidManifest.xml }}

## Attacker App

The attacker app registers a high-priority intent filter for `android.intent.action.GET_CONTENT`. When selected, it returns a `content://` URI that resolves to the attacker's `ContentProvider`. The `ContentProvider` uses `query()` to set a path-traversal filename (e.g., `../lib-main/lib.so`) and `openFile()` to serve a malicious native library.

{{ attacker/EvilContentActivity.kt # attacker/EvilContentProvider.kt # attacker/AndroidManifest.xml }}

## Steps

1. Prepare a malicious shared library (`fakelib.so`) and place it in the attacker app's data directory.
2. Install the attacker app on a device using @MASTG-TECH-0004.
3. Install the vulnerable app on a device using @MASTG-TECH-0004.
4. On the vulnerable app, click on start to trigger the file selection intent.

> 5. If a chooser dialog appears, select the attacker app. If the victim app auto-selects via `queryIntentActivities()`, the attacker app is chosen automatically due to its high-priority intent filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Prepare a malicious shared library (`fakelib.so`) and place it in the attacker app's data directory.
2. Install the attacker and vulnerable app on a device..
3. On the vulnerable app, click on start to trigger the file selection intent.
4. If a chooser dialog appears, select the attacker app. If the victim app auto-selects via `queryIntentActivities()`, the attacker app is chosen automatically due to its high priority intent filter.
```

## Observation

> The attacker app intercepts the `GET_CONTENT` intent and returns a `content://` URI. The vulnerable app queries this URI, receiving a filename with a path-traversal component (`../lib-main/lib.so`). It then opens the URI via `ContentProvider.openFile()`, which serves the attacker's malicious `fakelib.so`. The victim app copies this file into its library directory and loads it via `System.load()`, executing the attacker's code within the victim app's process and with its full permissions.

Reviewer: Rewrite the observation. It should start `The output contain ...`
